README.md, before:

[![MEAN.JS Logo](http://meanjs.org/img/logo-small.png)](http://meanjs.org/)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/meanjs/mean?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/meanjs/mean.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/meanjs/mean)
[![Dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/meanjs/mean.svg)](https://david-dm.org/meanjs/mean)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/meanjs/mean/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/meanjs/mean?branch=master)

MEAN.JS is a full-stack JavaScript open-source solution, which provides a solid starting point for [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/), [Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org/), [Express](http://expressjs.com/), and [AngularJS](http://angularjs.org/) based applications. The idea is to solve the common issues with connecting those frameworks, build a robust framework to support daily development needs, and help developers use better practices while working with popular JavaScript components.

## Before You Begin
Before you begin we recommend you read about the basic building blocks that assemble a MEAN.JS application:
* MongoDB - Go through [MongoDB Official Website](http://mongodb.org/) and proceed to their [Official Manual](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/), which should help you understand NoSQL and MongoDB better.
* Express - The best way to understand express is through its [Official Website](http://expressjs.com/), which has a [Getting Started](http://expressjs.com/starter/installing.html) guide, as well as an [ExpressJS Guide](http://expressjs.com/guide/error-handling.html) guide for general express topics. You can also go through this [StackOverflow Thread](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8144214/learning-express-for-node-js) for more resources.
* AngularJS - Angular's [Official Website](http://angularjs.org/) is a great starting point. You can also use [Thinkster Popular Guide](http://www.thinkster.io/), and the [Egghead Videos](https://egghead.io/).
* Node.js - Start by going through [Node.js Official Website](http://nodejs.org/) and this [StackOverflow Thread](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2353818/how-do-i-get-started-with-node-js), which should get you going with the Node.js platform in no time.


## Prerequisites
Make sure you have installed all of the following prerequisites on your development machine:
* Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org/download/) and the npm package manager. If you encounter any problems, you can also use this [GitHub Gist](https://gist.github.com/isaacs/579814) to install Node.js.
* MongoDB - [Download & Install MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads), and make sure it's running on the default port (27017).
* Bower - You're going to use the [Bower Package Manager](http://bower.io/) to manage your front-end packages. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install bower globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g bower
```

* Grunt - You're going to use the [Grunt Task Runner](http://gruntjs.com/) to automate your development process. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install grunt globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
```

## Downloading MEAN.JS
There are several ways you can get the MEAN.JS boilerplate:

### Cloning The GitHub Repository
The recommended way to get MEAN.js is to use git to directly clone the MEAN.JS repository:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/meanjs/mean.git meanjs
```

This will clone the latest version of the MEAN.JS repository to a **meanjs** folder.

### Downloading The Repository Zip File
Another way to use the MEAN.JS boilerplate is to download a zip copy from the [master branch on GitHub](https://github.com/meanjs/mean/archive/master.zip). You can also do this using `wget` command:

```bash
$ wget https://github.com/meanjs/mean/archive/master.zip -O meanjs.zip; unzip meanjs.zip; rm meanjs.zip
```

Don't forget to rename **mean-master** after your project name.

### Yo Generator		
-Another way would be to use the [Official Yo Generator](http://meanjs.org/generator.html), which generates a copy of the MEAN.JS 0.3.x boilerplate and supplies multiple sub-generators to ease your daily development cycles. 

## Quick Install
Once you've downloaded the boilerplate and installed all the prerequisites, you're just a few steps away from starting to develop your MEAN application.

The first thing you should do is install the Node.js dependencies. The boilerplate comes pre-bundled with a package.json file that contains the list of modules you need to start your application. To learn more about the modules installed visit the NPM & Package.json section.

To install Node.js dependencies you're going to use npm again. In the application folder run this in the command-line:

```bash
$ npm install
```

This command does a few things:
* First it will install the dependencies needed for the application to run.
* If you're running in a development environment, it will then also install development dependencies needed for testing and running your application.
* Finally, when the install process is over, npm will initiate a bower install command to install all the front-end modules needed for the application

## Running Your Application
After the install process is over, you'll be able to run your application using Grunt, just run grunt default task:

```
$ grunt
```

Your application should run on port 3000 with the *development* environment configuration, so in your browser just go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

That's it! Your application should be running. To proceed with your development, check the other sections in this documentation.
If you encounter any problems, try the Troubleshooting section.

* explore `config/env/development.js` for development environment configuration options

### Running in Production mode
To run your application with *production* environment configuration, execute grunt as follows:

```bash
$ grunt prod
```

* explore `config/env/production.js` for production environment configuration options

### Running with TLS (SSL)
Application will start by default with secure configuration (SSL mode) turned on and listen on port 8443.
To run your application in a secure manner you'll need to use OpenSSL and generate a set of self-signed certificates. Unix-based users can use the following command:

```bash
$ sh ./scripts/generate-ssl-certs.sh
```

Windows users can follow instructions found [here](http://www.websense.com/support/article/kbarticle/How-to-use-OpenSSL-and-Microsoft-Certification-Authority).
After you've generated the key and certificate, place them in the *config/sslcerts* folder.

Finally, execute grunt's prod task `grunt prod`
* enable/disable SSL mode in production environment change the `secure` option in `config/env/production.js`


## Testing Your Application
You can run the full test suite included with MEAN.JS with the test task:

```bash
$ grunt test
```

This will run both the server-side tests (located in the app/tests/ directory) and the client-side tests (located in the public/modules/*/tests/).

To execute only the server tests, run the test:server task:

```bash
$ grunt test:server
```

And to run only the client tests, run the test:client task:

```bash
$ grunt test:client
```

## Development and deployment With Docker

* Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/installation/#installation)
* Install [Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

* Local development and testing with compose:
```bash
$ docker-compose up
```

* Local development and testing with just Docker:
```bash
$ docker build -t mean .
$ docker run -p 27017:27017 -d --name db mongo
$ docker run -p 3000:3000 --link db:db_1 mean
$
```

* To enable live reload, forward port 35729 and mount /app and /public as volumes:
```bash
$ docker run -p 3000:3000 -p 35729:35729 -v /Users/mdl/workspace/mean-stack/mean/public:/home/mean/public -v /Users/mdl/workspace/mean-stack/mean/app:/home/mean/app --link db:db_1 mean
```

## Getting Started With MEAN.JS
You have your application running, but there is a lot of stuff to understand. We recommend you go over the [Official Documentation](http://meanjs.org/docs.html).
In the docs we'll try to explain both general concepts of MEAN components and give you some guidelines to help you improve your development process. We tried covering as many aspects as possible, and will keep it updated by your request. You can also help us develop and improve the documentation by checking out the *gh-pages* branch of this repository.

## Community
* Use the [Official Website](http://meanjs.org) to learn about changes and the roadmap.
* Join #meanjs on freenode.
* Discuss it in the new [Google Group](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/meanjs)
* Ping us on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/meanjsorg) and [Facebook](http://facebook.com/meanjs)

## Live Example
Browse the live MEAN.JS example on [http://meanjs.herokuapp.com](http://meanjs.herokuapp.com).

## Deploying To Cloud Foundry

Cloud Foundry is an open source platform-as-a-service (PaaS).  The MEANJS project
can easily be deployed to any Cloud Foundry instance.  The easiest way to deploy the
MEANJS project to Cloud Foundry is to use a public hosted instance.  The two most popular
instances are [Pivotal Web Services](https://run.pivotal.io/) and 
[IBM Bluemix](https://bluemix.net).  Both provide free trials and support pay-as-you-go models
for hosting applications in the cloud.  After you have an account follow the below steps to 
deploy MEANJS.

* Install the [Cloud Foundry command line tools](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/installcf/install-go-cli.html).
* Now you need to log into Cloud Foundry from the Cloud Foundry command line.
  *  If you are using Pivotal Web Services run `$ cf login -a api.run.pivotal.io`.
  *  If you are using IBM Bluemix run `$ cf login -a api.ng.bluemix.net`.
* Create a Mongo DB service, IBM Bluemix and Pivotal Web Services offer a free MongoLabs service.
  *  `$ cf create-service mongolab sandbox mean-mongo`
* Clone the GitHub repo for MEANJS if you have not already done so
  * `$ git clone https://github.com/meanjs/mean.git && cd mean`
* Run `$ npm install`
* Run the Grunt Build task to build the optimized JavaScript and CSS files
  * `$ grunt build`
* Deploy MEANJS to Cloud Foundry
  * `$ cf push`

After `cf push` completes you will see the URL to your running MEANJS application 
(your URL will be different).

    requested state: started
    instances: 1/1
    usage: 128M x 1 instances
    urls: mean-humbler-frappa.mybluemix.net

Open your browser and go to that URL and your should see your MEANJS app running!

###  Deploying MEANJS To IBM Bluemix
IBM Bluemix is a Cloud Foundry based PaaS.  By clicking the button below you can signup for Bluemix and deploy
a working copy of MEANJS to the cloud without having to do the steps above.

[![Deploy to Bluemix](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/deploy?repository=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fmeanjs%2Fmean)

After the deployment is finished you will be left with a copy of the MEANJS code in your own private Git repo
in Bluemix complete with a pre-configured build and deploy pipeline.  Just clone the Git repo, make your changes, and
commit them back.  Once your changes are committed, the build and deploy pipeline will run automatically deploying
your changes to Bluemix.

## Credits
Inspired by the great work of [Madhusudhan Srinivasa](https://github.com/madhums/)
The MEAN name was coined by [Valeri Karpov](http://blog.mongodb.org/post/49262866911/the-mean-stack-mongodb-expressjs-angularjs-and)

## License
(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

[doc] Add seed user instructions to README

README.md, after:

[![MEAN.JS Logo](http://meanjs.org/img/logo-small.png)](http://meanjs.org/)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/meanjs/mean?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/meanjs/mean.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/meanjs/mean)
[![Dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/meanjs/mean.svg)](https://david-dm.org/meanjs/mean)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/meanjs/mean/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/meanjs/mean?branch=master)

MEAN.JS is a full-stack JavaScript open-source solution, which provides a solid starting point for [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/), [Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org/), [Express](http://expressjs.com/), and [AngularJS](http://angularjs.org/) based applications. The idea is to solve the common issues with connecting those frameworks, build a robust framework to support daily development needs, and help developers use better practices while working with popular JavaScript components.

## Before You Begin
Before you begin we recommend you read about the basic building blocks that assemble a MEAN.JS application:
* MongoDB - Go through [MongoDB Official Website](http://mongodb.org/) and proceed to their [Official Manual](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/), which should help you understand NoSQL and MongoDB better.
* Express - The best way to understand express is through its [Official Website](http://expressjs.com/), which has a [Getting Started](http://expressjs.com/starter/installing.html) guide, as well as an [ExpressJS Guide](http://expressjs.com/guide/error-handling.html) guide for general express topics. You can also go through this [StackOverflow Thread](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8144214/learning-express-for-node-js) for more resources.
* AngularJS - Angular's [Official Website](http://angularjs.org/) is a great starting point. You can also use [Thinkster Popular Guide](http://www.thinkster.io/), and the [Egghead Videos](https://egghead.io/).
* Node.js - Start by going through [Node.js Official Website](http://nodejs.org/) and this [StackOverflow Thread](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2353818/how-do-i-get-started-with-node-js), which should get you going with the Node.js platform in no time.


## Prerequisites
Make sure you have installed all of the following prerequisites on your development machine:
* Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org/download/) and the npm package manager. If you encounter any problems, you can also use this [GitHub Gist](https://gist.github.com/isaacs/579814) to install Node.js.
* MongoDB - [Download & Install MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads), and make sure it's running on the default port (27017).
* Bower - You're going to use the [Bower Package Manager](http://bower.io/) to manage your front-end packages. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install bower globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g bower
```

* Grunt - You're going to use the [Grunt Task Runner](http://gruntjs.com/) to automate your development process. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install grunt globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
```

## Downloading MEAN.JS
There are several ways you can get the MEAN.JS boilerplate:

### Cloning The GitHub Repository
The recommended way to get MEAN.js is to use git to directly clone the MEAN.JS repository:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/meanjs/mean.git meanjs
```

This will clone the latest version of the MEAN.JS repository to a **meanjs** folder.

### Downloading The Repository Zip File
Another way to use the MEAN.JS boilerplate is to download a zip copy from the [master branch on GitHub](https://github.com/meanjs/mean/archive/master.zip). You can also do this using `wget` command:

```bash
$ wget https://github.com/meanjs/mean/archive/master.zip -O meanjs.zip; unzip meanjs.zip; rm meanjs.zip
```

Don't forget to rename **mean-master** after your project name.

### Yo Generator		
-Another way would be to use the [Official Yo Generator](http://meanjs.org/generator.html), which generates a copy of the MEAN.JS 0.3.x boilerplate and supplies multiple sub-generators to ease your daily development cycles. 

## Quick Install
Once you've downloaded the boilerplate and installed all the prerequisites, you're just a few steps away from starting to develop your MEAN application.

The first thing you should do is install the Node.js dependencies. The boilerplate comes pre-bundled with a package.json file that contains the list of modules you need to start your application. To learn more about the modules installed visit the NPM & Package.json section.

To install Node.js dependencies you're going to use npm again. In the application folder run this in the command-line:

```bash
$ npm install
```

This command does a few things:
* First it will install the dependencies needed for the application to run.
* If you're running in a development environment, it will then also install development dependencies needed for testing and running your application.
* Finally, when the install process is over, npm will initiate a bower install command to install all the front-end modules needed for the application

## Running Your Application
After the install process is over, you'll be able to run your application using Grunt, just run grunt default task:

```
$ grunt
```

Your application should run on port 3000 with the *development* environment configuration, so in your browser just go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

That's it! Your application should be running. To proceed with your development, check the other sections in this documentation.
If you encounter any problems, try the Troubleshooting section.

* explore `config/env/development.js` for development environment configuration options

### Running in Production mode
To run your application with *production* environment configuration, execute grunt as follows:

```bash
$ grunt prod
```

* explore `config/env/production.js` for production environment configuration options

### Running with User Seed
To have default account(s) seeded at runtime:

In Development:
```bash
MONGO_SEED=true grunt
```
It will try to seed the users 'user' and 'admin'. If one of the user already exists, it will display an error message on the console. Just grab the passwords from the console.

In Production:
```bash
MONGO_SEED=true grunt prod
```
This will seed the admin user one time if the user does not already exist. You have to copy the password from the console and save it.

### Running with TLS (SSL)
Application will start by default with secure configuration (SSL mode) turned on and listen on port 8443.
To run your application in a secure manner you'll need to use OpenSSL and generate a set of self-signed certificates. Unix-based users can use the following command:

```bash
$ sh ./scripts/generate-ssl-certs.sh
```

Windows users can follow instructions found [here](http://www.websense.com/support/article/kbarticle/How-to-use-OpenSSL-and-Microsoft-Certification-Authority).
After you've generated the key and certificate, place them in the *config/sslcerts* folder.

Finally, execute grunt's prod task `grunt prod`
* enable/disable SSL mode in production environment change the `secure` option in `config/env/production.js`


## Testing Your Application
You can run the full test suite included with MEAN.JS with the test task:

```bash
$ grunt test
```

This will run both the server-side tests (located in the app/tests/ directory) and the client-side tests (located in the public/modules/*/tests/).

To execute only the server tests, run the test:server task:

```bash
$ grunt test:server
```

And to run only the client tests, run the test:client task:

```bash
$ grunt test:client
```

## Development and deployment With Docker

* Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/installation/#installation)
* Install [Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

* Local development and testing with compose:
```bash
$ docker-compose up
```

* Local development and testing with just Docker:
```bash
$ docker build -t mean .
$ docker run -p 27017:27017 -d --name db mongo
$ docker run -p 3000:3000 --link db:db_1 mean
$
```

* To enable live reload, forward port 35729 and mount /app and /public as volumes:
```bash
$ docker run -p 3000:3000 -p 35729:35729 -v /Users/mdl/workspace/mean-stack/mean/public:/home/mean/public -v /Users/mdl/workspace/mean-stack/mean/app:/home/mean/app --link db:db_1 mean
```

## Getting Started With MEAN.JS
You have your application running, but there is a lot of stuff to understand. We recommend you go over the [Official Documentation](http://meanjs.org/docs.html).
In the docs we'll try to explain both general concepts of MEAN components and give you some guidelines to help you improve your development process. We tried covering as many aspects as possible, and will keep it updated by your request. You can also help us develop and improve the documentation by checking out the *gh-pages* branch of this repository.

## Community
* Use the [Official Website](http://meanjs.org) to learn about changes and the roadmap.
* Join #meanjs on freenode.
* Discuss it in the new [Google Group](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/meanjs)
* Ping us on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/meanjsorg) and [Facebook](http://facebook.com/meanjs)

## Live Example
Browse the live MEAN.JS example on [http://meanjs.herokuapp.com](http://meanjs.herokuapp.com).

## Deploying To Cloud Foundry

Cloud Foundry is an open source platform-as-a-service (PaaS).  The MEANJS project
can easily be deployed to any Cloud Foundry instance.  The easiest way to deploy the
MEANJS project to Cloud Foundry is to use a public hosted instance.  The two most popular
instances are [Pivotal Web Services](https://run.pivotal.io/) and 
[IBM Bluemix](https://bluemix.net).  Both provide free trials and support pay-as-you-go models
for hosting applications in the cloud.  After you have an account follow the below steps to 
deploy MEANJS.

* Install the [Cloud Foundry command line tools](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/installcf/install-go-cli.html).
* Now you need to log into Cloud Foundry from the Cloud Foundry command line.
  *  If you are using Pivotal Web Services run `$ cf login -a api.run.pivotal.io`.
  *  If you are using IBM Bluemix run `$ cf login -a api.ng.bluemix.net`.
* Create a Mongo DB service, IBM Bluemix and Pivotal Web Services offer a free MongoLabs service.
  *  `$ cf create-service mongolab sandbox mean-mongo`
* Clone the GitHub repo for MEANJS if you have not already done so
  * `$ git clone https://github.com/meanjs/mean.git && cd mean`
* Run `$ npm install`
* Run the Grunt Build task to build the optimized JavaScript and CSS files
  * `$ grunt build`
* Deploy MEANJS to Cloud Foundry
  * `$ cf push`

After `cf push` completes you will see the URL to your running MEANJS application 
(your URL will be different).

    requested state: started
    instances: 1/1
    usage: 128M x 1 instances
    urls: mean-humbler-frappa.mybluemix.net

Open your browser and go to that URL and your should see your MEANJS app running!

###  Deploying MEANJS To IBM Bluemix
IBM Bluemix is a Cloud Foundry based PaaS.  By clicking the button below you can signup for Bluemix and deploy
a working copy of MEANJS to the cloud without having to do the steps above.

[![Deploy to Bluemix](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/deploy?repository=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fmeanjs%2Fmean)

After the deployment is finished you will be left with a copy of the MEANJS code in your own private Git repo
in Bluemix complete with a pre-configured build and deploy pipeline.  Just clone the Git repo, make your changes, and
commit them back.  Once your changes are committed, the build and deploy pipeline will run automatically deploying
your changes to Bluemix.

## Credits
Inspired by the great work of [Madhusudhan Srinivasa](https://github.com/madhums/)
The MEAN name was coined by [Valeri Karpov](http://blog.mongodb.org/post/49262866911/the-mean-stack-mongodb-expressjs-angularjs-and)

## License
(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
